# Interview External
You said external does this include IP addresses and domains? “Yes”.
The first thing should be a kickoff meeting. A kickoff meeting is a meeting with all the different business owners and stakeholders. And there a few different questions you want to ask.
What kind of IP addresses and domains are completely off limits?Maybe there is some upgrade or change going. Or if something might go down if you run an aggressive scan is going on. Just to get an understanding of the network. Once thats establish you should ask if theres a certain time of day you should be testing or certain days of the weeks just to understand what the customer wants. The last thing you want do is  cause some kind of incident where a business critical asset goes down. So that is very important and get it written down. 

The first thing that I am probably going to do and its usually tiered but if its just a pentest ill be thorough. So if I have some domains in scope for XYZ company dot com I will start doing subdomain enumeration and within subdomain enum theres a lot of good tools. Theres tools out there they will allow you to enumerate subdomain through registration services via SSL and TLS and theres also subdomain enum through simple brute force whether some kind of RDP subdomain is available or whatever and on top of that I will do ip enumeration when I do port scanning I tend to start with the most common ports first. Then when I get the common ports in there. Just the very common ports that will likely be open like 80, 443, 8080, 21, 22. Just ports that are likely to be open on the internet. Once I gather that information I start looking for low hanging fruits. Are there login portals available? Are there login portals available over HTTP? Are there login portals that do not require multi factor authentication? Are there vulnerable web portals that might have some kind of CVE within exploit database that I can maybe exploit. Is there something that might be vulnerable to someone forgot to change the default credentials into a certain place. And theres kind of where I like to start out with and once the penetration test goes on and take a deep look at everything I have available to me with a full port scan. As you do these port scans and subdomain enumeration and you find potential attack vectors you can run your web scanners or just if its a website you might just want to map the application that you're going after. You might want to look at how peoples emails are listed. Theres a website called hunter dot io and you can type any company address and it'll tell you this company goes by first name and last name @ company dot com. You can use open source intel and pull a list of email addresses and things like that. A lot of times there is issues where you can do username enumerations through some kind of web portal or it might say incorrect user but password is right or vice versa. You can use burp to look at dif response code. Once the ports are scanned once I know what the web app looks like, I am going to look for low hanging fruits. Maybe theres a server theres 2008 or EOL or brand new cve available with a proof of concept or default credentials on some sort of interface on  server somewhere. MAybe theres some stuff on the cloud, AWS KEYS or credentials on github somewhere. Try to grab a thread and once you grab it whether its default cred or a server thats super old and unpatched or maybe theres a subdomain that you can stuff creds all day long until you get something easy. Alot of ppl admit you do osint and grab a list of email and you just plug in an easy password. Really try to get in there. A Lot of companies have remote portals where you can get in through some sort of remote desktop protocol or access a computer on a network. 

When you do the external portion and when they say when you get in you can continue your route in and hack into the network. IF you are doing pentest if you have something with default credentials if you are able to actually get in. Thats when you call whoever is your point of contact. If you find a way in from the outside tell someone right away. You also write down the commands you are running and the time stamp. Take notes. Then move on to the internal part.

# External Recon
Two pain portions of recon - organizational and technical.

Organizational recon is focused on collecting information about the organization. This could be the people who work there from names jobs and skills, the org structure, site locations and business relationships.

Technical recon, you're looking for systems like public facing websites, mail servers, remote access solutions, and any vendors or products in use particularly defensive ones like web proxies, email gateways, firewalls, antivirus, etc.

Passive collection relies on third party sources like google, linkedin, shodan - without touching parts of the target network.

Active is touching those components which could be as simple as visiting the target's website, or port scanning their ip ranges. 

Subdomains can also provide insight to other publicly available services, which could include webmail remote access solutions such as Citrix or a VPN. Tools such as dnscan come with lists of popular subdomains.